Version 1.8.X
=============


Version 1.8.0
-------------

Deployed: XXth XX 2024

Contributors
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- `Cainã Max Couto da Silva <https://github.com/cmcouto-silva>`_
- `Gurjinder Kaur <https://github.com/gurjinderbassi>`_
- `Gleb Levitski <https://github.com/GLevv>`_
- `Lorenzo Vitali <https://github.com/93lorenzo>`_
- `Soledad Galli <https://github.com/solegalli>`_

In this release, we make some breaking changes. The `DecisionTreeEncoder()` does not have the encoding pipeline any more.
In its place, we now added an `encoding_dict_` parameter that stores the mappings from category to predictions of the
decision tree. This allowed us to implement in addition a way to handle unseen categories and the method `inverse_transform`.

We also expanded the functionality of the `DecisionTreeDiscretiser()`, which can now replace the continuous attributes
with the decision tree predictions, interval limits, or bin number.

The classes from the module `outliers` can now automatically select the limit for the boundaries for outliers.

Finally, we have updated and expanded various pages of our documentation.

Thank you very much to all contributors to this release and to `Vasco Schiavo <https://github.com/VascoSch92>`_ and
`Gleb Levitski <https://github.com/GLevv>`_ for actively reviewing many of our PRs.

If you value what we do, please consider `sponsoring us <https://github.com/sponsors/solegalli>`_, so that we can keep
updating Feature-engine at a fast pace.

Enhancements
~~~~~~~~~~~~

- `DecisionTreeEncoder` now supports encodings for unseen categories, `inverse_transform`, and provides an encoding dictionary instead of the pipeline (`Soledad Galli <https://github.com/solegalli>`_, `Gleb Levitski <https://github.com/GLevv>`_ and `Lorenzo Vitali <https://github.com/93lorenzo>`_ )
- The `DecisionTreeDiscretiser()` can now replace the continuous attributes with the decision tree predictions, interval limits, or bin number (`Soledad Galli <https://github.com/solegalli>`_)
- The `OutlierTrimmer()` and `Winsorizer()` can now adjust the strength of the outlier search automatically based of the statistical method (param `fold="auto"`) (`Gleb Levitski <https://github.com/GLevv>`_)


Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Improve user guide for `PowerTransformer()` (`Cainã Max Couto da Silva <https://github.com/cmcouto-silva>`_)
- Improve user guide for `EqualFrequencyDiscretiser()` and `EqualWidthDiscretiser` (`Cainã Max Couto da Silva <https://github.com/cmcouto-silva>`_)
- Improve user guide for the categorical encoding module (`Gurjinder Kaur <https://github.com/gurjinderbassi>`_)
